# File storage

This template uses `express-fileupload` middleware to accept files in request.\
This middleware adds a `files` property to the `Express.Request` type, which you can use to retrieve sent files.

## Storage location

Where files are stored is determined by the `UPLOADS_PATH` enviroment
variable. If the variable is not provided the path is set to `./uploads`. \
See [enviroment docs](../1.%20General/1.%20Environment.md) for more info

## Database

There is a `File` model associated with the files stored. You can find the
model definition in [models/File.ts](../../src/models/File.ts)

## Example API endpoints

There are 3 exmaple API endpoints provided with this template:

### Uploading a file

The endpoint's source code is located in
[api/file/upload.ts](../../src/api/file/upload.ts) \
This is a `POST` endpoint which receives a `file` body parameter containing a file to store on the server. \
The endpoint responds with a `File` object in the database. \
You can latter access the uploaded file by its `_id`

### Getting file's info

The endpoint's source code is located in
[api/file/get-info.ts](../../src/api/file/get-info.ts) \
This is a `GET` endpoint which receives a `file` query parameter containing an ObjectId of the file to get info about. \
The endpoint responds with a `File` object in the database.

### Donwloading a file

The endpoint's source code is located in
[api/file/donwload.ts](../../src/api/file/download.ts) \
This is a `GET` endpoint which receives a `file` query parameter containing an ObjectId of the file to download. \
The endpoint responds with the raw file (original name of the file is preserved)
