# Authentication

`Passport.js` library and its `local strategy` are used for authentication. You can find their configuration in 
[passport.ts file](src/lib/passport.ts)


## Usage with Express:

Passport.js extends Express's typescript interface, by adding `isAuthenticated()` method and `user` variable to the 
request. You can use them inside your endpoints like so:

``` js
app.get(path, async (req: Express.Request, res: Express.Response) => {
    try {
        if (req.isAuthenticated()) {
            // User is authenticate
            // req.user is not null
            res.send(`Your email is: ${req.user?.email}`)
        } else {
            // User is not authenticated
            // req.user is null
            res.send('Access denied')
        }
    } catch (e) {
        res.sendStatus(500)
        console.error(e)        
    }
})
```

Mind that `req.user` is of interface `User` which extends interface `IUser` found in 
[models/User.ts](../../src/models/User.ts). That's why we can access any property defined in `IUser` \
You can find `User` interface definition in [types/express.d.ts](../../src/types/express.d.ts) file. 


## Default auth API endpoints: 
With this template there are 3 API endpoints for handling authentication:

### Register:
This endpoint allows for registering a new user. You can find an endpoint [here](../../src/api/auth/register.ts). 
After registration, user will automatically receive an active session and will be able to call endpoints that 
require authentication.

### Login:
This endpoint allows user to receive a session by providing auth credentials. You can find an endpoint 
[here](../../src/api/auth/login.ts)

### Logout:
This endpoint allows user to drop their active session. The session will be destroyed and to receive a new one, they 
will have to use the login endpoint. You can find an endpoint [here](../../src/api/auth/logout.ts)

## Sessions:
By default, sessions are stored in the DB. The `sessions` collection will be created automatically for storing those. 
You can change this behaviour by modifying `Auth setup` section of [app.ts](../../src/app.ts)

## Storing passwords:
Passwords are stored using `bcrypt`'s `hash` function. You can find password generation code inside 
[register endpoint](../../src/api/auth/register.ts) and password comparing code in 
[passport.ts file](../../src/lib/passport.ts)
