# Server side rendering

This template uses handlebars as a templating language. 

## Templates and views

### Views and layouts:
Views are stored in `src/views` directory.
Layouts are stored in `src/views/layouts` directory.


### Providing production build with templates:
Production build expects to find templates inside `./views` directory **relative to the main file**
(so `dist/views` by default). Typescript compiler does not copy `.hbs` and `.handlebars` files itself, so there are two
ways for doing this:

1. Copy the `views` directory. \
   This method is used by default as it the most supported across operating systems and file systems \
   There is a script, that does the copying automatically every time you use `build` or `bns` command. You can trigger 
   it manually by running `node scripts copyViews.js`

2. Linking `dist/views` to `src/views` with a symlink. \
   This method is not universally supported and sometimes requires additional user privileges, but is very convenient 
   for development, because you can edit your templates and see the changes without recompilation or copying them over. \
   To create the symlink you can run on of the following commands:
   - `yarn linkViews`
   - `npm run linkViews`
   - `node scripts/linkViews.js`
   
   Or create symlink by hand

   **Note:** If you are on `Windows` you might need to [give yourself privileges](https://superuser.com/a/105381)
   for creating symlinks

   **Note:** Symlinks are not supported on `FAT32` file system


## Express integration:
Express integration is supported, but not automated (as it's done with API endpoints) \
To create a server side rendering endpoint, use Express's API. Eg:
``` js
app.use('path', (req, res) => {
   res.render('view name', {
      templateVar: 'value',
      explanation: 'these value will be avaliable inside the template'
   })
})
```

For more information check out [Express Handlebars npm page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-handlebars)

